doc/pages/list-action-handler-conception-notes.md, before:

List action handler conception notes
=========================
2019-09-05


Above the list (aka html table), we often have some kind of toolbar with some buttons in it.

Those buttons allows us to perform various actions, generally on a pre-made selection of rows, but not only.

So for instance we can have a "print" button, or a "delete selected rows" button, or an "export to pdf" button,
an "export to csv", you get the idea.


In the realist context, the actions of those buttons are referred to as "list actions", and a "list action handler"
is a php object that handles the implementation of such a button in the realist system.



A **list action handler** is composed of three parts:

- a js action: a js callable which handles the action of the button, including fetching/processing the data from a server if required.
            This callable is triggered when the button is clicked.
- the button: which is just the html of the button    
- the execute part: this is optional and is only used if the "list action handler" needs the help of a php server.
        If that's the case, the execute part is the php code that does the job and return the appropriate response.
        
        
Rather than implementing this from scratch on your own, we have some tools to help you with the implementation.

Those will be listed here below.              



The php part
---------------

In order to create a php service, one can implement the **LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface**.

Do not confound this interface with the LightRealistActionHandlerInterface, which handles actions for specific rows.

Note: we created another interface to make the distinction between the both types of actions clearer: one being 
specialized in specific rows actions, while the **list action handler** interface acts at a more general level, on all the 
selected rows and/or on the list in general.


This interface features the **execute** method:


- execute ( string id,  array params ): array


For the returned array, we propose to use the response format described in the [ajax communication protocol](https://github.com/lingtalfi/AjaxCommunicationProtocol).




The button part
------------

This part is just about returning the html code for the button.
The **LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface** features the getButton method for that.

- getButton ( string id )


Now sometimes you want to dispose the buttons in a certain manner; for instance you want to group all the buttons related to exporting the data in a button group dropdown.
We use a button disposer object for that, and provide a **LightRealistListActionToolbarRendererInterface** that you can implement, it will create the actual html of the whole tool bar.

It features the following method:

- getToolbar ( array groups ):string


The groups parameter being an array of toolbar items.
See the toolbar item section later in this document for more information.

    
 
 
### Button markup
 
We recommend that an action button (i.e. not a button container) has the following markup:

- lah-button: this css class should be added to the button/link.  
- data-action-id: this html attribute should be set, with the value being the value of the **action_id**.   






The js action callable
------------

This callable is triggered when the corresponding button is clicked.
The **LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface** features the getJsActionCode method for that, which returns the js code to execute,
or an empty string if the instance injected the js init code with another mean (i.e. with a tool like [html page copilot](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_HtmlPageCopilot) for instance).

Note: I personally prefer to not use the copilot for small js codes like that, and put them inline just below the html button,
as it's easier to debug (we can just inspect the code and see the script below the button)

 
- getJsActionCode ( string id ): string


### But what js code exactly?

It turns out we settled for an eval variant named Function (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function).
Apparently it's just a more efficient than eval.

We are not afraid of eval, since our php objects provide the content of the function (and so if the content of those functions
were already corrupted in anyway, eval would be the least of our problems, as the server would be already corrupted in the first place). 

And so we are able to let developer use this simple declaration (naming the function "f" is actually required, any other name would fail):

```js
function f (jBtn, rics, jContainer, jTable){
    //
}


```

The parameters are:

- jBtn: the jquery object representing the clicked button
- rics: an array of ric (each ric being a map of columnName => value)
- jContainer: the jquery object representing the list container
- jTable: the jquery element representing the main table (containing the data rows)








The list action handler js helper
---------------

We provide a **list-action-handler-helper.js** script in this planet, so that you save some time will
implementing your own list actions.
This tool implements all the recommendations of this document. 







The toolbar item
-------------------

A toolbar item is either a group of buttons or a standalone button.
The structure of an item is the following:

- text: string, the label of the group or item 
- ?action_id: string, the identifier of the action. This applies only to the leaves of the tree (i.e. it does not apply to
        items containing other items).    
- ?icon: string, the css class of the icon (if any)
- ?items: An array of children items (recursively). Only if this item is a container (aka group) for other items. 
- ?enabled_behaviour: string|js callable = oneOrMore.
        Only if you use the **list-action-handler-helper.js** (lahh) script (See the list action handler helper section below for
         more details).
        Defines when/how this button should be enabled/disabled.
        
        Basically, every time a checkbox is checked/un-checked, a callable is triggered.
        You can define this callable manually, using a javascript callable with the following signature:
        
        
        - callable ( ricHelper, selectedRics): bool
        
        With:
            - ricHelper being a ric helper instance (see the ric admin table helper tool in this planet for more details (ric-admin-table-helper.js)
            - selectedRics: array of selected rics, each ric being a ric object (map of column => value).
 
            
        The callable should return whether the button is active (true) or inactive (false).            
            
            
        Alternately, you can use some special strings, which cover the basic use cases for this enabledBehaviour option.
        The available special strings are:
        
        - oneOrMore: this will basically add/remove the disabled html attribute on the item, depending on how many checkboxes
                            are checked. If no checkboxes are checked, then the disabled attribute will be added.
                            If one or more checkboxes are checked, then the disabled attribute will be removed.
                            This is actually the default value.             
        - always: this item will always be enabled (i.e. no disabled html attribute set).
- ?js_code: string|js callable.
            This property will be automatically created by the realist service's decorateListActionGroups method,
            which was created specially for this purpose, when the list renderer needs it.
            
            It then will be treated by a javascript handler such as the list-action-handler-helper.js script.
            
            Our design decision here is that we write the js functions on the php side (using the LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface->getJsActionCode method),
            so that we have a better control over organization and extending functions when needed..
            
            We shouldn't define this property manually.
            I just wrote it here as a reminder of this "unusual" design involving both javascript and php.  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
Personal notes about this design
------------------------

I chose this design for at least the following reasons:


- we extend new actions using php (it's easier for me to manage with php than js)
- an action can be seen as an atomic block (if we used a JsActionHandler type of object, then we
        would need to create two objects for every new action added: the JsActionHandler and the ExecuteHandler)

Commit message:

update update open admin table helper main implementation, now uses ajax handler

doc/pages/list-action-handler-conception-notes.md, after:

List action handler conception notes
=========================
2019-09-05


Above the list (aka html table), we often have some kind of toolbar with some buttons in it.

Those buttons allows us to perform various actions, generally on a pre-made selection of rows, but not only.

So for instance we can have a "print" button, or a "delete selected rows" button, or an "export to pdf" button,
an "export to csv", you get the idea.


In the realist context, the actions of those buttons are referred to as "list actions", and a "list action handler"
is a php object that handles the implementation of such a button in the realist system.



A **list action handler** is composed of three parts:

- a js action: a js callable which handles the action of the button, including fetching/processing the data from a server if required.
            This callable is triggered when the button is clicked.
- the button: which is just the html of the button    
- the execute part: this is optional and is only used if the "list action handler" needs the help of a php server.
        If that's the case, the execute part is the php code that does the job and return the appropriate response.
        
        
Rather than implementing this from scratch on your own, we have some tools to help you with the implementation.

Those will be listed here below.              



The php part
---------------

In order to create a php service, one can implement the **LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface**.

Do not confound this interface with the LightRealistActionHandlerInterface, which handles actions for specific rows.

Note: we created another interface to make the distinction between the both types of actions clearer: one being 
specialized in specific rows actions, while the **list action handler** interface acts at a more general level, on all the 
selected rows and/or on the list in general.


This interface features the **execute** method:


- execute ( string id,  array params ): array


For the returned array, we propose to use the response format described in the [ajax communication protocol](https://github.com/lingtalfi/AjaxCommunicationProtocol).




The button part
------------

This part is just about returning the html code for the button.
The **LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface** features the getButton method for that.

- getButton ( string id )


Now sometimes you want to dispose the buttons in a certain manner; for instance you want to group all the buttons related to exporting the data in a button group dropdown.
We use a button disposer object for that, and provide a **LightRealistListActionToolbarRendererInterface** that you can implement, it will create the actual html of the whole tool bar.

It features the following method:

- getToolbar ( array groups ):string


The groups parameter being an array of toolbar items.
See the toolbar item section later in this document for more information.

    
 
 
### Button markup
 
We recommend that an action button (i.e. not a button container) has the following markup:

- lah-button: this css class should be added to the button/link.  
- data-action-id: this html attribute should be set, with the value being the value of the **action_id**.   






The js action callable
------------

This callable is triggered when the corresponding button is clicked.
The **LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface** features the getJsActionCode method for that, which returns the js code to execute,
or an empty string if the instance injected the js init code with another mean (i.e. with a tool like [html page copilot](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_HtmlPageCopilot) for instance).

Note: I personally prefer to not use the copilot for small js codes like that, and put them inline just below the html button,
as it's easier to debug (we can just inspect the code and see the script below the button)

 
- getJsActionCode ( string id ): string


### But what js code exactly?

It turns out we settled for an eval variant named Function (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function).
Apparently it's just a more efficient than eval.

We are not afraid of eval, since our php objects provide the content of the function (and so if the content of those functions
were already corrupted in anyway, eval would be the least of our problems, as the server would be already corrupted in the first place). 

And so we are able to let developer use this simple declaration (naming the function "f" is actually required, any other name would fail):

```js
function f (jBtn, rics, jContainer, jTable, params){
    //
}


```

The parameters are:

- jBtn: the jquery object representing the clicked button
- rics: an array of ric (each ric being a map of columnName => value)
- jContainer: the jquery object representing the list container
- jTable: the jquery element representing the main table (containing the data rows)
- params: an array of extra parameters passed via the toolbar item (see the toolbar item section later in this document)








The list action handler js helper
---------------

We provide a **list-action-handler-helper.js** script in this planet, so that you save some time will
implementing your own list actions.
This tool implements all the recommendations of this document. 







The toolbar item
-------------------

A toolbar item is either a group of buttons or a standalone button.
The structure of an item is the following:

- text: string, the label of the group or item 
- ?action_id: string, the identifier of the action. This applies only to the leaves of the tree (i.e. it does not apply to
        items containing other items).    
- ?icon: string, the css class of the icon (if any)
- ?items: An array of children items (recursively). Only if this item is a container (aka group) for other items. 
- ?enabled_behaviour: string|js callable = oneOrMore.
        Only if you use the **list-action-handler-helper.js** (lahh) script (See the list action handler helper section below for
         more details).
        Defines when/how this button should be enabled/disabled.
        
        Basically, every time a checkbox is checked/un-checked, a callable is triggered.
        You can define this callable manually, using a javascript callable with the following signature:
        
        
        - callable ( ricHelper, selectedRics): bool
        
        With:
            - ricHelper being a ric helper instance (see the ric admin table helper tool in this planet for more details (ric-admin-table-helper.js)
            - selectedRics: array of selected rics, each ric being a ric object (map of column => value).
 
            
        The callable should return whether the button is active (true) or inactive (false).            
            
            
        Alternately, you can use some special strings, which cover the basic use cases for this enabledBehaviour option.
        The available special strings are:
        
        - oneOrMore: this will basically add/remove the disabled html attribute on the item, depending on how many checkboxes
                            are checked. If no checkboxes are checked, then the disabled attribute will be added.
                            If one or more checkboxes are checked, then the disabled attribute will be removed.
                            This is actually the default value.             
        - always: this item will always be enabled (i.e. no disabled html attribute set).
- ?js_code: string|js callable.
            This property will be automatically created by the realist service's decorateListActionGroups method,
            which was created specially for this purpose, when the list renderer needs it.
            
            It then will be treated by a javascript handler such as the list-action-handler-helper.js script.
            
            Our design decision here is that we write the js functions on the php side (using the LightRealistListActionHandlerInterface->getJsActionCode method),
            so that we have a better control over organization and extending functions when needed..
            
            We shouldn't define this property manually.
            I just wrote it here as a reminder of this "unusual" design involving both javascript and php.  
- ?csrf_token: array|null: if set, indicates that a csrf protection is desired for that action.
    - name: the name of the token    
    - value: the value of the token    
    
    We recommend passing the token value as the **csrf_token** [hep](https://github.com/lingtalfi/NotationFan/blob/master/html-element-parameters.md) attribute (i.e. data-param-csrf_token),
     because we use the **hep** notation in general, and **csrf_token** is a convention we use to pass the csrf token value via ajax.  
    
- ?params: array. An array of extra parameters. Those will be passed to the js code.    
        We use the [hep](https://github.com/lingtalfi/NotationFan/blob/master/html-element-parameters.md) idea
        to transmit the parameters.
- ?right: string. The [permission](https://github.com/lingtalfi/Light_User/blob/master/doc/pages/permission-conception-notes.md)
            required to access the service (if any).          
    
    
To help with the js implementation, the realist planet has some dependencies to some js tools that you can use out of the box:

- [JAcpHep](https://github.com/lingtalfi/JAcpHep)
    
    
Note: you still need to include the assets manually, but the aforementioned js tool planet(s) will be imported along with the Light_Realist planet.
    
    
    
    
    
Personal notes about this design
------------------------

I chose this design for at least the following reasons:


- we extend new actions using php (it's easier for me to manage with php than js)
- an action can be seen as an atomic block (if we used a JsActionHandler type of object, then we
        would need to create two objects for every new action added: the JsActionHandler and the ExecuteHandler)
